# Attendance Policy {#attendance}

**Attendance and ongoing participation in sociology courses is mandatory in all sociology classes and is essential to your success in this course.** Only documented emergencies will constitute excused absences or assignments. Documentation will only be accepted within one week of your return to class. Please do not contact me about non-emergency absences. \textcolor{red}{\bf{You are allowed up to three (3) unexcused absences and anything more than that will affect your final grade. If you expect to miss class because of a religious observance, you will need to notify me beforehand. Finally, if you miss class, it is your responsibility to catch up.}}

## Dropped From The Course
In accordance with the college drop policy, students who do not access the class web site or submit the designated “first assignments” by the due date may be dropped as a no show. Students who fail to turn in the weekly assignments and/or participate in the discussion boards will be considered “absent” and may be dropped from the class for “excessive absence.” Students are responsible for officially dropping the class or they will receive a letter grade based on their performance.

-   **No Show Drop:** You must complete a designated discussion post, quiz, or practice activity by Friday of the first week of class or you may be dropped as a no-show. Students who do not complete **any** work in the first two weeks will be dropped. 

-  **Excessive Absence Drop:** If more than two consecutive weeks of non-participation is observed by the instructor the student may be dropped. If you do not participate in each week’s participation activities (during class, online activities, or Perusall) and complete at least one quiz or practice activity, you will be considered “non-participating” and subject to being dropped from the course. 