---
output:
  pdf_document: default
  html_document: default
---

## Statement of Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Education is transformative, and open intellectual inquiry is the foundation of a university education and a democratic society. In the spirit of shared humanity and concern for our community and world, the faculty of Chico State's Sociology Department celebrate diversity as central to our mission and affirm our solidarity with those individuals and groups most at risk. In line with our departmental goals, we disavow all racism, xenophobia, homophobia, sexism, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, classism, ableism, and hate speech or actions that attempt to silence, threaten, and degrade others.

As educators, we affirm that language and texts, films and stories help us to understand the experiences of others whose lives are different from ours. We value critical reasoning, evidence-based arguments, self-reflection, and the imagination. Building on these capacities, we hope to inspire empathy, social and environmental justice, and an ethical framework for our actions. We advocate for a diverse campus, community, and nation inclusive of racial minorities, women, immigrants, the LGBTQ+ community, and people of all religious faiths.

## Statement of Respect for Diversity in Learning Styles, Perspectives, and Backgrounds
Each of us arrives in the classroom with a multitude of life experiences, and we all learn in different ways. In designing this class, my intent has been to provide many different methods to practice and learn to support these different learning styles. In addition, while learning social theory, we will use a variety of example to demonstrate their applicability. Some examples will be simple and often use ‘made-up’ scenarios, while others deal with real life events and experiences about important social issues. It is my hope that all materials in the class are respectful to people from all backgrounds including diversity in sex/gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity/race, immigration status, veteran status, religion, and culture. I invite your feedback on this, and your suggestions are always welcome.

## Undocumented, DACA, or AB-540 Immigrant Students
As an educator, I strive to make courses accessible to all students regardless of immigration status. If your status presents obstacles to engaging in specific activities or fulfilling specific criteria, you may request confidential accommodations. You may consult with the [Office of Equity and Diversity](https://www.csuchico.edu/diversity/) or the [Dream Center](https://www.csuchico.edu/dreamcenter/) for examples of possible accommodations. Such arrangements will not jeopardize your student status, your financial aid, or any other part of your residence. Please advise me if and when you feel comfortable during the semester so that I may make appropriate alterations as needed.

**Note:** For all students addressing undocumented immigration as a category of analysis in class, do not use the word "illegal(s)" in a discussion. The term "illegal(s)" promotes a culture of intolerance and violence toward foreign nationals and undocumented immigrants. A more accurate and non-offensive term is "undocumented immigrant(s)." The use of this language signifies respect to the population addressed and reflects our campus's most basic values of diversity and civility in academic discourse.

## Statement on Eliminating Anti-Blackness
Faculty at CSU Chico strive to create an environment that supports meaningful dialogue grounded in research, academic inquiry, and mutually respectful relations.  We also strive to remain conscious of and attentive to the damage that anti-Blackness does to the lives of our students, faculty, staff, administrators, and their related communities. As such, faculty at CSU Chico denounce anti-Blackness and racial violence in all forms and stand in solidarity with Black communities in the fight for racial justice, equality, and equity. We pledge to remake our institution as one that values, honors, and supports Black lives. We recognize the impact of anti-Blackness on our students, and we invite them to dialogue with their professors as we work to make our classrooms anti-racist and dignity-affirming spaces. 

## LGBTQ+ Equality Statement
I am firmly committed to diversity and equality in all areas of campus life, including specifically members of the LGBTQ+ community. In this class I will work to promote an anti-discriminatory environment where everyone feels safe and welcome. I recognize that discrimination can be direct or indirect and take place at both institutional and personal levels. I unequivocally believe that such discrimination is unacceptable and I am committed to providing equality of opportunity for all by eliminating any and all discrimination, harassment, bullying, or victimization. The success of this policy relies on the support and understanding of everyone in this class. We all have a responsibility not to be offensive to each other, or to participate in, or condone harassment or discrimination of any kind.
